{frontmatter}

# Introduction

I'm a technical writer, and I've used a lot of writing tools over the course of my professional career. One of the most interesting tools I've encountered is a markup language called Markdown.

My litmus test for a successful writing tool is whether using it can become second nature. Does writing with it feel natural? Or do I feel like I'm constantly fighting against it? I stop using tools that hinder me. Time is valuable, and I don't have the luxury of indulging things that squander that precious resource.

Markdown passes the test with flying colors. Writing using Markdown just *feels right*. Since its introduction in 2004, millions of people have started using it to write everything from notes to documents. It's one of the most successful markup languages of all time.

Markdown has succeeded where other markup languages have failed because it strikes the right balance between power and simplicity. It's easy to learn and simple to use. Its tremendous success means it's ubiquitous enough to replace WYSIWYG editors on websites like Reddit and GitHub. But Markdown is also powerful enough to create documents, books, and technical documentation. Markdown is literally everywhere.  

I've been using Markdown for years now and I recommend it to everyone I know. There are lots of reasons why you should learn to write using Markdown, but one of the best reasons is that it's better than the alternatives. Learning Markdown means you can stop using all the subpar writing tools you've tolerated for years. It can also further your career. Believe it or not, knowing how to write using Markdown is a requirement for many jobs.

That brings us to this book. I couldn't find a comprehensive Markdown reference guide, so I decided to create one.

The *Markdown Guide* has humble beginnings. It started as a single webpage in 2017. After receiving positive feedback from friends and coworkers, I decided to expand the site. To my astonishment, the *Markdown Guide* was receiving hundreds of unique visitors a day by early 2018. At that point, it occurred to me that people might also appreciate the *Markdown Guide* in book format.

I hope you enjoy reading this book as much as I've enjoyed writing it. Above all, I hope it helps you write using Markdown, and I hope using Markdown makes you a better writer.

## How to Read This Book

This book is designed to be a comprehensive reference guide to the Markdown markup language. If you're new to Markdown, start at the beginning and read to the end. If you're an expert user, keep this book handy — you never know when you'll need to refer back to the [cheat sheet](#cheat-sheet).

### Beginner Resources

The first two chapters of this book are designed exclusively for readers who are new to Markdown. [Getting Started](#getting-started) provides a quick introduction to Markdown. It shows you how to get going quickly with the Dillinger online Markdown editor, and it sheds light on some of the stuff going on behind the scenes.

[Doing Things With Markdown](#doing-things-with-markdown) talks about what you can create using Markdown. It also presents some the applications you can use to write using Markdown.

### Syntax Examples

To help you learn how to write using Markdown, I've provided three sections for every syntax element in the chapters on [basic](#basic-syntax) and [extended syntax](#extended-syntax):

- **Markdown:** This is what you'll type in your Markdown application.
- **HTML:** This is the HTML code that'll be generated by the Markdown processor.
- **Rendered Output:** This is what the reader will see.

To learn more about the Markdown to HTML conversion, see the section on [how Markdown works](#how-markdown-works).

### Asides

Extra bits of information are displayed with an "i" icon next to them, like this:

I> Here's some extra information you might find helpful.

Tips are displayed with a key icon next to them, like this:

T> Here's a cool tip you might find useful.

### Quirks

Some of the Markdown and HTML code samples in this book "wrap" to the next line. In the situations where that happens, you'll see a `\` at the end of the first line of the code block. That `\` isn't actually part of the code. It's displayed there to indicate that the next line of the code block is actually part of the same line.

## Contributing

This book is an open-source project, and your contributions are welcome. The [repository](https://github.com/mattcone/markdown-guide-book) is hosted on GitHub. See the [README](https://github.com/mattcone/markdown-guide-book/blob/master/README.md) for instructions and guidelines.

## Reporting Issues

Find something wrong? [Create an issue](https://github.com/mattcone/markdown-guide-book/issues) on GitHub and I'll fix it as soon as possible. Thank you!

## Acknowledgements

I'm eternally grateful to Reem and our children, Finn and Simon. This book wouldn't exist without their love and support.

I greatly appreciate the help of AK Molteni, Gaylin Walli, Juan Torrez, Diana Lynch, and my parents, Steve Cone and Kathie Lathan, who were sounding boards for the website and book. Thanks to [Josh Ellingson](http://ellingson.cc/) for creating the amazing, jaw-dropping artwork on the cover. Last, but certainly not least, I'd like to thank *you* and everyone else who has read and contributed to the *Markdown Guide*. You've not only made this book possible, you've made it better!
